
So I had started with some of these STM32F031F4P6 and an ebay TSSOP20
breakout board, figured out what more I wanted in a breakout board.
Made a couple, then made the DWSTM32 breakout with some buttons and
such.  And then eventually wanted more pins, so made the DWLQFP32
board, on which I am using this part, the STM32F030K6T6.

Understand that st's peripherals are pretty much if not identical from
one part to another.  Learn how to program the gpio on any of the
stm32s from a cortex-m0 to a cortex-m4 and you can cut and paste
the code and simply change the base addresses and maybe not even that.

These little breakouts I am using the lowest cost cortex-m0 chips
from st at mouser.

The NUCLEO-F031K6 is closely related to the microcontrollers used
on these breakouts.  The programs were identical between that board
and the DWSTM32, so you can use that NUCLEO with these examples too
is what I assume, if not easy to modify.  So you can buy a ready to
use board rather than making one of these yourself.

The STM32F031F4P6 covers jtag stuff if you want to go that route and
some chit chat about soldering.  A popular way to do things is to use
a board like this

https://www.sparkfun.com/products/112

and you would need a breakout board for a package like this that
results in two rows.  the breadboard then gives you multiple connection
points per pin.  But I dont do that, did with my first through hole/
dip microcontrollers, but dont anymore.  I just fly some female/female
jumper wires between things

https://www.sparkfun.com/products/10898

so I need a few pins to have multiple connections, so if you look
at the pdf of this breakout or the board file (eagle pcb has a free
version that will show you this board) I have four four pin rails
there.  so basically I can connect power and then connect it to three
other pins, and also connect the grounds.

Basically the examples for this one are the same as the DWLQFP32
board examples since it is the same part, I bought a handful of them
and put one on this board and some on the other.
