
This directory is a collection of bare metal examples for the
STM32L053 discovery board.

All links to st or other websites are subject to change you may need
to just search that website or use google if the links dont work.

http://www.st.com/stm32l0-discovery

You will want the users manual if nothing else, this has a schematic
in it plus descriptions of where buttons and leds are, for example
leds on PA5 and PB4 are described here.

That page says this board uses the STM32L053C8T6 part, searching for
that part has one part number result for the STM32L053C8 family.

Under design resources tab you will need the Data Sheet (DS something
right now DS10152, first pdf).

And the Reference Manual.

And any other you think interesting

The Reference Manual is your primary document for programming this
chip.

This is an MBED type board so when you plug it in, among other things
it should show up as a usb removable drive.  To run one of these programs
for example blinker01, copy the blinker01.gcc.thumb.flash.bin file to
that usb drive, and it should load the program and reset the chip to
start running it automatically.

Start with the blinker01 example.  Then blinker02 and so on through
the blinker examples.

Unfortunately and I dont know why ST continues to do this, just stupid
for folks that might want to use this board but do not have soldering
equipment, and/or the desire to solder on a board.  They should have
this configured by default then for folks that dont want it they can
unsolder the bridge.  This kind of thing makes me recommend (a few)
of the TI launchpads as they (well some) dont need solder or jumpers
to start using.  The uart is your primary bare metal debug tool, okay
second to an led which they did provide here, but if you dont want
to morse code to debug then you need the uart.  for another $10 you
can get a ftdi usb cable with male jumper ends on it (search for an
ftdi cable for a raspberry pi, same one works here) figure out the tx
and rx on the cable and PA9/PA10 (figure out which one is tx and rx)
on this board.  connect rx to tx and tx to rx.

I will try the solder bridges SB14 and SB15 to see if they work.  And
add some uart examples.

The schematic indicates the board does not have an external 32KHz
oscillator which is most likely for the RTC so maybe we dont have
an RTC.  But between the schematic and the manual for the discovery
kit it appears that the MCO from the stlink microcontroller which they
say is 8MHz and that MCU is fed by an 8MHz crystal, I guess they are
using one crystal for both parts.  The first couple of blinkers use
the internal clocks, blinker03 starts to use the 8MHz external and
most other examples should use the 8MHz example unless otherwise
stated.

Messing with the clock is dangerous business in general for bare metal
if you dont get it right you can possibly brick the chip. How?  Say
you fail to do all the steps right but you manage to tell it to
switch to some other clock, but because of a mistake you made that
clock is not there, so now the chip is dead.  If the logic that is
used to reprogram the chip needs that clock, then you cannot jtag in
for example which is often what the debug end of a board like this
does.  Hitting reset if your program is run from flash just runs your
program again and crashes the same way every time.  Fortunately for
me/us there is a boot0 pin, if you take a jumper or some bit of metal
and short it to the vdd pin next to it, then hit reset, it does not run
our program it runs the bootloader programmed into the part by ST during
manufacturing of the part.  Basically not our program, jtag can now
come in and reprogram the user portion of the flash, and we get
another chance.  I have bricked a few MCU boards like these that dont
have a bootloader or alternate boot mode by making mistakes.  Unless
you have a stack of spare boards or parts it is often better to have a
way out.  Basically you should always start with an led blinker without
changing clocks.  Then figure out how to read an input, use the led to
indicate the state of the input, if the input is a button like on
this board, great if not then tie the other end of that input to VDD and
GND and see the led go on or off.  Now use that knowledge to provide
an if-then-else in the code if input is one way then go ahead and try
to change the clocks, if not then dont.  This chip has a input strap
that chooses the boot source already, the boot0 pin so we dont have
to add our own.

This chip is cortex-m0+ based, which is a cortex-m0 but a smaller
and/or lower powered version, I think they said it was only a few
pipeline stages.  It has been plenty of time now but the cortex-m3
was the first one out, and the cortex-m3 is ARMv7m based, the
cortex-m4 is also ARMv7m based.  cortex-m3 for example is the
name of a specific ARM processor core product.  ARMv7m is the name
of the general architecure that that specific product is designed to
meet, other cores that are also from that archtecture are similar in
how they work, they all conform.  The cortex-m0 and m0+ though come
from the ARMv6m architecture.  Why that matters is because the
instruction set used by all of the cortex-m cores so far is called
thumb, a reduced version of the full blown ARM instruction set.
Originally (started with the ARMv7T or ARM7TDMI core) thumb was strictly
16 bit instructions.  The ARMv4T and ARMv5 used this, ARMv6m though
which is a special cortex-m subset/relation to the full ARMv6 took
some of the undefined instruciton patterns, and implemented them such
that they became a variable length instruction.  Basically they added
a small number of 32 bit instructions but these are NOT 32 bit ARM
instructions but 32 bit thumb2 extensions to the thumb instruction
set, different encoding.  If you look at the ARMv7m documentation
they show different encodings for each instruciton, some of the T1 or
T2 or whatever encodings will say all thumb variants or list a long
list of ARMvwhatever numbers.  Some will list only ARMv6m and ARMv7m
and some will say ARMv7m only.  I counted one day and the difference
between ARMv6m thumb2 extensions and ARMv7m is over 100 new instructions
added to ARMv7m.  So if you are working at the assembly level or you
are compiling you have to be careful to tell the compiler to use the
correct instruction set, if you think that all cortex-ms are the same
and build for a cortex-m3 for example and try to run that on a
cortex-m0 it will crash when it hits instructions it doesnt recognize
(trigger the undefined instruction exception).  Long story short, dont
do that, second part of the story is although ST provides a cortex-m0+
programmers reference manual, you probably should get the TRM from
arm for the cortex-m0+ (assume the latest rev but that has bitten
me before) and the ARMv6m architectural reference manual.


